So how is your edit been going so far?
Good.
OK, perfect.
So now we've made it to our next step.
Now that we pulled our selects successfully, we're going to be moving to creating our rough edit.
Now, in this phase, this is the stage where we're going to put shots roughly where they're supposed
to be.
And we're not going to focus too much right now on fine tuning, on things like coloring, on things
like exposure or matching or getting any of the real nitty gritty.
Right.
Yet we're just really going to build a basic foundation.
OK, we're going to build the skeleton with the low frequency of cutting so that the main concept of
the overall video can be seen.
So if we were editing to a soundtrack, if we were editing to a storyline, we want to try and get all
the spots in our timeline.
Hopefully the correct order and fill any blank screens.
So we want to line things up.
For example, like I mentioned a voiceover, we're not going to be doing a voiceover for this one just
yet, but we're going to place our B roll on top.
This specific example doesn't really have any role.
We'll get more into that.
And we want to get our right shot ordering together.
And next, because, you know, I love doing these backups.
Then I've learned time and time again over the years doing these little extra copy, duplicate paste,
put in the folder.
Nothing to worry about.
You're good.
We're going to do a another backup of our rough edit sequence.
Once that's done, because, of course, it's always a good idea to duplicate your sequence before going
in and making big changes.
And once the rough edit is done, that is the perfect time to step away from the project and take a
little break and come back with fresh eyes.
It's also an optional time where you can get client feedback, team feedback, friends and family feedback
on the edit.
Just to get another perspective of how the basic, basic rough edit is looking.
Before going into fine tuning, there's a.
How do I say there's a phase of editing down the road on the more refining side, when you start really
spending minutes, hours, days, sometime on 10 second sequences in this rough edit phase before we
get to that.
We want to make sure the whole thing cohesively is making sense and is telling the story that we want
to be told before getting to that phase.
So that's why after we finish this next section, it's a good time to take a break, come back with
fresh eyes and look at it with a brand new perspective, because once you're sitting in front of the
laptop for a while and you've been looking at the same frames, you start to go blind in certain ways
and you start to go deaf in certain ways.
So as we go deeper into that, you'll start to see.
But we're not quite there yet.
So in this next step, we're going to create and assemble our rough edit.